---
title: 0. Intro
date: "2019-08-21"
description: "Why I made this & Who it's for"
id: 1

---

### What is this guide?  
 
This guide will walk you through the process of having an app or website created from your idea. Lots of people have ideas for apps. Some of those ideas are bad, some are good. But, having ideas doesn't get you anywhere. Acting on those ideas will help you learn the difference between a good and bad idea, and will help you turn your bad ideas into good ideas. The difference most of the time is in how we execute or design our solution. Doing is the best way to learn. 

> "You're missing every single shot that you ain't taking"
</br>
> Mac Miller

We'll start with an idea, decide if it's the right idea, turn it into a smaller first step, decide who to market it to, make sure (we think) it's solving a problem, test our assumptions, design the app, have it developed, launch it, and then potentially turn it into a company -- or do it all over again with our new experience and insight.

We will outsource most of the work, while focusing on our strengths and developing our skill set in a certain direction (whatever we want to focus on moving forward) -- you could also make yourself a better candidate to find a technical co-founder, if that's your goal.  

### Why am I making this? 

To empower people (i.e. you!) to make a difference. You understand your problems, and would probably be able to solve them best if given the right processes and mindset. 

I believe in our ability to change the world around us (hopefully for the better).

> "Everything around you that you call life was made up by people that were no smarter than you and you can change it, you can influence it, you can build your own things that other people can use. 
> Once you learn that, you'll never be the same again."
</br>
> Steve Jobs

### Who is this for? 

This was written specifically for non-technical founders. 

You don't need any skills to start, all you need is:
- a unique perspective 
- a desire to learn 
- discipline to follow through 

Our goal isn't to make a million dollars with our first app, it's just to build something and to learn as we go. I'm confident that this is the right path for a significant amount of people, and will help you long term in whatever you hope to do or achieve. 

We want to train ourselves to be product makers. We are not only going to learn the process, but also practice the mindset that is required to make products (i.e. solve problems) effectively.  

### Do I need money to start? 

No.

The less money you have the more you will have to do on your own, and the smaller your first project should be. This just means you will need to learn a diverse set of skills as we go, which is great.

Once we get to the point of hiring people, your job instead will be to find co-founders. That is definitely something you will be better suited to doing once you have worked through the guide.  

### How does it work? 

We start with your idea and each section guides us through the process, step by step, of making something. Each section is broken down into several tasks with a time limit. 

If a task is taking too long, just stop where you are and move on to the next task, you can always circle back if you need to. Try to keep your forward momentum. 

### Contact Me

This is an opinionated guide (in order to be concise). 

If you have a suggestion or question, let me know. Email me, sobbuh@makesomething.app

If you're planning to use this, email me and let me know. I'd love to hear about what you're working on. I might make a slack/discord group if there's enough interest.   


