---
title: 1. Idea
date: "2019-08-22"
description: "Start with a big idea, make it small, clear, executable, testable"
publish: "true"
id: 2

---

You may have several ideas and be wondering how to choose one. Here are some things that you could consider:  

- Passion - how much do you care about the product?
- Knowledge - how well do you know the problem you are trying to solve?
- Feasibility - how easy is it to make the thing
- Monetization - are people willing to pay for it?
- Market size — how many people are willing to pay for it? 
- Market accessibility - how easy is it to reach that target market? 

For our first project, our goal is just to *make something*. So right now we're going to focus on knowledge -- how well do you know the problem you are trying to solve?

> “The easiest shortcut to building great products is not to think like your best customer but to be your best customer. 
> Stop hypothesizing, and just build what you’d want built for yourself.”
</br>
> Aaron Levie, CEO Box

This is always a good idea, because it's going to speed up our process significantly. So pick a problem you have and want solved, and let's get started. 

---

#### Part 1 Objectives

- Narrow down your idea so that you can understand it, be confident in it, and sell it to others

- Think about the needs of your immediate users, and how to help them do the job they are trying to do

- Understand the growth of your product over time, and how the value proposition can change for your users as you grow

- Make your idea small, clear, executable, and testable

---

#### Rules & How to Start

Run through the task list and familiarize yourself with the ideas. 

For each task, set a timer. 
Read the task description, and then start the timer. 
Try to stay within the guidelines, but if you're in the middle of working, keep working. 
Once done, write down the total time each task took. 
If you need to take a break, take it before starting the next task. Never take a break or stop in the middle of a task. 

If you think a task is not relevant to your current idea, skip it. You can always come back to it later. 

---

#### Tasks

i. What is your idea?  (4 minutes)

ii. Give it a name. (2 minutes)

iii. Describe your idea in 60 characters or less (2 minutes)

iv. Why are you making this? (2 minutes)

iv. What problem(s) does it solve? (4 minutes)

v. What features does your app need to solve that problem? 

---

#### Tasks (with Instructions)


**i. What is your idea?**
First, we want to take the time to write down exactly what our idea is. Get it out of your head and on to paper. 

Write it down as if you are explaining it to someone. 


**ii. What is your product called?**

Write up to 5 names down, and choose one to go with.

Don't worry about picking the perfect name, and don't worry about availability right now. Use something easy to remember.

A lot of this project will follow this format of trying to focus on the important parts, and we're especially not going to worry about things we can change later.

An important thing to remember is that as we keep working on the project, we'll have more ideas. We don't want to get attached to a name, or idea, early on. Keeping an open mind and being open to listening to our users and learning is a skill we want to constantly work on.

---

**iii. Describe your idea in 60 characters or less**

Being able to concisely relay your ideas is important, and it also helps you get down to the bare minimum of what your product is really for. 

---

**iv. Why are you making this?**

The 'why' informs your long term vision, which should inform all of your decisions moving forward. This is your north star. This is what makes you keep moving when you're tired, unmotivated, want to do anything else in the world other than what you're doing now.

Having a good answer will also help you craft a story around the project; this is important in motivating yourself, employees, partners, and selling your idea to cofounders, users, and investors.


You may want to include your long term goal for the app here (18 months is a good horizon, in my experience). So : "In 18 months, _______________ will be _____________"

---

**v. What problem(s) does it solve?**

It can be useful to use sticky notes for this.

What jobs are your users trying to complete?

Here you want to be thinking explicitly about all of the issues that your users are facing around your app idea. What are the main outcomes they are looking for? Try to think way more generally, and also specifically about the problems they are facing. (this section will be much better once there are examples)

---



**v. Brainstorm potential users and where to find them**

Who could your users be? Where do they currently exist, what do they talk about?

Try to list as many different sources of where you might find your first users.

i.e. These might be competing sites, social networks (i.e. what facebook groups are they on, what instagram hashtags do they use, what subreddits are they on). They could also be potential ideas for blog posts, or guest blog posts, or ideas for generating press.

---

**vi. Narrow down your first users**

From your list above, try to narrow down your first set of users.

This should be a group who has the same goals/problems they need to be solved, and should be easy to target. Who would be willing to try out your app? Who has a problem you have a solution to?

---


**vii. Map the User Journey for your first users**

Think about your first group of users.



Write “first users” on the left side of a sheet of paper.



In the middle, write a square with “download app” or “visit website” (depending on which you are making).



In between the user and the middle square, write all of the steps that have to happen or what causes them to take action. What makes them download your app?

On the right side, write down the steps that they would possibly take once they are on the app/website. Each page they visit or screen they see / action they take should a separate box. What is the final outcome of the steps them have taken?

---



viii. Which features are required for that user journey to be possible? What features are not required for the first versions of the app?

Based on the group you chose above, what are the main features your app needs to have? What problems does it need to solve to be useful (and worth downloading) for that group of users?



Another way to think about this is that you’ve just released your product for the first time, what is the first tweet you send out? If it’s a B2B product, what is your first cold email?



We want to think about your product holistically, and grow it with your user base. These most important features for the first version of your app is commonly referred to as an MVP (minimum viable product). I would suggest instead thinking of it as a Minimum Lovable/Beneficial/Remarkable product, because you want to make sure it is something that actually benefits your first set of users.

---



ix. Who are the second set of users of the app? What features do they need? What do you need the first users of the app to produce or do to attract more users?

Ideally, our first set of users will create more value for our second set of users (i.e. they could provide User Generated Content, or form one side of a two sided marketplace). If the second set of users is different from the first set of users, we may want to think about which features are necessary for the first set of users to create value for future users, or if the initial app is enough on it’s own.



---

x. How would you explain your MVP, in 30 seconds or less?

By narrowing down your idea, we now have an MVP.

Think about how this has changed from the start of the process.

---

#### Outputs




---
