---
title: 2. Competition
date: "2019-08-23"
description: "Take a bird's eye view"
---

What you should have now: 

	- A short pitch for your app
	- Why you are doing this 
	- An idea for your MVP 
	- A list of jobs that your users want to accomplish 

---

Day 2 Objectives

- To understand a narrow view of your competition, and how your solution compares 

- To continue to think about the needs of your immediate users, and how to help them achieve their desired outcome

---

The goal of this section is to take a look at your competition. 

Spend 5-10 minutes searching for an answer to the problems you listed in part 1. Open each potential answer as a new tab, or just write a note. 
After we have them all, we’ll analyze our competition against our current ideas. 

---

**Tasks** 

i. Who are your competitors? 


ii. How did you search for these competitors? What specific job were you trying to do when you were searching? How were you limiting your search?  


iii. What are the main problems your competitors solve?
(i.e. What jobs are the users doing when they are using your competitors?) 


Iv. From your list of jobs that you’ve written in part 1, go through your competitors and rate them on a score of 1-10 how well they do each job, and how hard it is to complete each job 


v. What are the ‘table stakes’ jobs that all competitors are doing for their users?  

vi. What are some features from your competitors that you would like to replicate? 

vii. How do you solve the problem differently from your competitors? What is your USP (unique sales proposition)?


---

**Task Explanations**

*i. Who are your competitors?* 

When trying to find competitors, imagine that you are searching for a solution to a problem you have.  You want to focus on the actual problem you are solving for your customer. 

It’s best not to use sites like angel list, but that’s okay too. 

If you already know of competitors, be sure to include those as well. How are you currently solving the problem? What are your substitute solutions? 

*ii. How did you search for competitors?* 

This is important in keeping us on track and really understanding the problem that we’re trying to solve. 

*iii. What are the main problems your competitors solve for each user?* 
You want to think about the main problem that each competitor is solving — is it different than what you are solving? 

*Iv. From your list of jobs that you’ve written in part 1, go through your competitors and rate them on a score of 1-10 how well they do each job, and how hard it is to complete each job* 

which jobs are most important and are being satisfied. We’re going to do that ourselves. 

If you aren’t a user of the product that you’re creating, you’ll want to make sure you verify these assumptions through user testing, interviews and surveys. 


*v. What are the ‘table stakes’ jobs that all competitors are doing for their users?*  

These are jobs that all of the competitors are doing for their users. These are things you will want to make sure to include in all forms of your app, including your MVP unless you can be sure that they are not significant to your users (i.e. through user surveys and interviews, but more likely through user testing)

*vi. What are some features from your competitors that you would like to replicate?* 

Take screenshots and write notes about the specific features you think are useful. Think about how to improve these features, or to narrow them down to distill just the most valuable parts of the process. 

*vii. How do you solve the problem differently from your competitors? What is your USP (unique sales proposition)?*

You really want to test your assumptions here — is the problem you’re solving really important enough for someone to be looking for a new solution? 
