---
title: User Stories
date: 5
description: "Make it concrete"

---

#### What you have so far

    - A name
	- A short explanation of your app
    - A list of the problems your users are trying to solve
	- Your reason for doing this
    - A list of users that we will target
    - A persona (based on user needs) for our first set of users
    - A user journey map for our first users
    - A list of assumptions and ways to de-risk those assumptions
    - A short description of your MRP
    - A feature set for v1
    - A feature set for v2
    - A feature set labelled icebox
    - A list of your competitors
    - A list of keywords and searches your customers might use
    - A chart showing which problems your competitors solve and how well they solve them
    - A list of table stakes jobs
    - Your USP 

---
  
#### Objectives

- Break down your solution into user stories

---

#### Tasks

	1. Who are the different users of your app (grouped by their interaction with the app)?

	2. For each user group, what are their user stories? 

	3. For each user story, label it with “v1”, “v2”, and “icebox”. 

	4. For each user story in v1, label it with an importance using squares of 2 (1, 2, 4, 8, 16)
	
---
#### Tasks (with Instructions)

**1. Who are the different users of your app (grouped by their interaction with the app)?**

We need to separate users of our app into categories. This is going to be general; for example, you might split it into ‘users’ and ‘admins’. We don’t focus on any personas; just on the job the user is performing in the system.  

For example, with Yelp we might have: 

User
Moderator/Admin
Business Owner

We might want to split ‘users’ into additional groups, i.e. a “content creator” or even “City Leader” category of user if we think that is necessary for the growth of our app. But, we only want to focus on our first version users for now. 

i.e. We may want to consider the needs of our power users, and how we can make their lives easier by using the app, so that they are more likely to use it and produce more content that is consumable for our regular users. 

**2. For each user group, what are their user stories?**

We have our list of jobs that our users want to accomplish using our app and we’re going to use that to create a list of ‘user stories’. 

Your user stories will follow the format: 

As a ____________, I can ________________________

You want these to be at a task-level granularity. 

i.e.  For google maps:

“As a user I can… 

Find businesses and landmarks around me
Get directions to a single location 
See reviews for a single business
Save a location to add it to my map
Share a location with my friends
….
“

These explain the task the user is trying to accomplish by using the app in one specific instance. 

Some people will write the motivation for each user as part of these user stories — I don’t think that’s necessary, but you may find it helpful to refine your ideas and to think a little bit deeper about the ‘why’ for each user. 


**3. For each user story, label it with “v1”, “v2”, and “icebox”.** 

We are going to split our app into 3 versions; V1, V2, and icebox. 

We’ve already thought about our MRP(v1) and our version 2. That should help us determine what goes where, and we’ll keep thinking about these as we go.  

For now, you’ll want to include the following in your V1: 

	- any stories that are necessary for your first group of users to find remarkable benefit by using your app instead of alternate solutions 
	- any stories that are necessary for your app to grow in value that is necessary for the v2 of your app 
	- any stories that would help us test our assumptions early
 
You want to be quite strict about what you keep in your V1; try to make it as lean as possible, but remember that you want to solve your users problems in a way that is significantly better or different (ideally both) than alternate solutions. 

I like to give my user stories identifiers; I use a “user group”-“number” combination (i.e. “users-1, users-2, admin-1”).


**4. For each user story in v1, label it with an importance  using squares of 2 (1, 2, 4, 8, 16)**

This helps us identify what we believe are important tasks for our users. We use squares of 2 because we don't want to be too granular or nitpicky. 

We’ll refine these as we go; these ‘importance values’ are assumptions that we want to test as we move forward. Remember, everything we think is based on assumption somewhere. The closer we can get to first principles and things we know to be true or have tested, the less assumptions we are making. 

Putting numbers on these will help us:
 — quantify our beliefs
 — make sure we aren’t trying to do too much
 — let us test our assumptions

The importance of each story will be different for each user — but we want to think about the majority of our users, and in particular the majority of our first set of users. 

---
#### Outputs

- A list of User Groups
- A list of User Stories for your first version, second version, and icebox
