---
title: 4. Screen-by-Screen Requirements
date: "2019-08-25"
description: "Split it up"

---

What we have so far:  

Part 1
- A short pitch for your app
- A clear explanation of why you are doing this
- An idea for your MVP 
- A list of jobs that your users want to accomplish 

Part 2
- A short list of your main competitors 
- A table outlining which jobs each competitor is doing
- A list of jobs that are necessary for you to do

Part 5
- A list of User Stories for your first version, second version, and icebox 


---

In this section, we’re going to separate our app into separate screens and break down our user stories into simple functionalities that can later be implemented. 

If you are worried about whether or not something is possible, it’s probably not a good idea to include it in your MVP.  If it’s central to your idea, you should ask someone you know who is technically proficient.


---

*Tasks*

	1. Write a list of your pages (for a website) or screens (for an app)  

	2. For each user story, write down the functionality on each screen that would allow the user to accomplish that story
	
	3. Review and tweak your app/website structure 
 
	4. Give a weight value to each functionality 

---

*Task Explanations*
 
1. Now that we know what our users want to accomplish by using our app, we can start laying out the functionality of the app into smaller sections. 

We’re going to visualize this by separating our app into different pages or screens. 

For an iOS app, you’ll split your app into a maximum of 5 screens. 

For each Screen, we’re going to split our user stories into a specific requirement for that screen.   

You may want to refer to your lookalike and inspiration apps for ideas on which screens might be necessary. 


3. 
Long, unstructured processes are difficult to teach and to navigate. Initially, every user experience needs to be pared down to its minimal task. We want it to be obvious for each user

For any behaviour that will be used often or is important, we don’t want our users to have to tap more than 3 times.  

The less taps, the better. 


4. 

--—

*Output* 

- A list of all the pages/screens for your app
- A list of all the functionality that is required on each screen
